Alicia Porter, grade seven
language arts and social studies
at George Street Middle School.
I'm here to talk about
the cultural diversity
and how that kind of drives,
how we structure classes.
So we have a very diverse
group of students at George Street.
So we try to take their interests
and their,
experiences in life
and kind of bring them into the classroom
so that everyone kind of has,
a feeling of belonging in our classrooms.
The stage is always open for them to share
anything that they would like to share,
about their, their culture
or their religion.
This year during Ramadan,
I had a few students asked me
if they could speak to the class
about about Ramadan and about it,
and it ended up that they ended up talking
to other classes about Ramadan and eat
so that students from that kind of
had an understanding of, you know,
why wasn't the student eating lunch
with us when everyone else was eating?
And it kind of like developed
a big conversation in our class,
and it was like a two hour conversation
during one of my social studies classes.
Just un students asking questions.
And I think you really kind of build
a bridge between different cultures
by just having understanding
and giving them that platform to talk.
And it's good too, for,
yeah, all students as well,
because if they don't have the language
to express,
you know, things
that they might want to share,
there's usually somebody else
in the class who does.
So they also, you know, in a way
feel seen and heard as well
because somebody else is speaking
on their behalf and letting other people
know things that perhaps that they would
like to themselves be able to share.
Well, I love it.
I've always loved social studies
and learning about different cultures.
So for me to have the kids
kind of take the lead on,
you know, different things,
like they know right from the get go that
they have something they want to share
or talk about.
They most definitely have the floor
and the opportunity to do that.
And I find like once
you get a couple kids doing it,
then more kids are like,
oh, can I talk about this?
Can I talk about that?
And it's really good
because these kids are bonding over
a lot of similar experiences
that maybe they wouldn't have known
were there before
because they were
from different countries,
or perhaps speak different languages
or different religions.
So it's it's really nice to see the,
the growth that your class
kind of demonstrates through,
you know, this open platform,
speaking about anything that kind of,
you know, is meaningful to them.
Children especially are
afraid sometimes of the unknown,
not afraid
that they just won't approach it
because they don't really know how.
So when you know a group of students
get up and talk about why they wear hijab,
then the students are like,
oh, well, now we know.
And it's not an unknown.
We know now.
And you know, in turn,
they can also educate other people.
So it's kind of a has a snowball effect.
It's nice
when you see them asking questions
and really thoughtful questions
as well to their peers.
I would say just start with conversations
and try to implement like when we like,
we don't do one off things like
we don't just talk about black history
during Black History
Month. We don't just talk about,
you know, First Nations
during in, around
Reconciliation Day in September.
Like, we we try to just embedded
in our everyday lessons.
So we search out articles
from different countries.
We search out, books
that are culturally diverse.
We invite people into our classrooms
to talk,
we give the students the floor to educate
because I'm not the professional.
I grew up here. Right.
So if they can come up
and talk about their country or something
that's relevant to them,
then that's it just enriches
everybody in the room, including myself.
I think I learn more from the students
and they will ever learn from me,
and they learn so much from each other.
So students who once were shy
at the beginning of the year
are now more open and are willing to work
in groups with different people,
and they're not seen as being different
because, you know, they're new or
they don't dress the same as somebody else
who speak the same languages.
So it's just nice to see the growth
overall in the classroom.